# Auto Detect Genre

This project completes the specified instructions using Python 3. The only external functions it makes use of are argv (for reading from the command line's standard input) and exit (for terminating the program when handling errors), both from the system library. 

## Key Details
The project was completed in about two and a half hours. I spent the first 25 minutes thinking about the problem itself and brainstorming how I wanted to structure a potential solution. I then spent the next hour or so writing code incrementally and testing each new development along the way. At around the 1.5 hour mark, I finished the parsing and the code that I had written was a skeleton that resembled what the end product would eventually be. It was here though that I decided to use a class to help organize my data for the calculating component instead of passing around a number of arguments to multiple functions. I had to restructure what I already wrote to incorporate the class, but that only took another 15 minutes. Finally, I spent the next 45 minutes debugging and thinking about edge cases to include in my error handling.

To run this project, unzip the folder '''autoDetectGenre.zip''' and '''cd''' into the unzipped directory of the same name.
From here, the code can be executed either using the '''python3''' command or with '''./'''. The two sample files in this directory are the same files from the project's specifications document. They are to be entered as additional parameters, in either order, for the Python script's successful execution from the terminal. Python 3 is the only dependency for this project as Python 2.7 will not work due to the differing print command between the two versions.

## Project Improvements
This implementation was far from perfect and while I am happy with what I wrote in the time that I had, if I had more time there would be a number of things I'd improve upon. To begin, I would have...

<ul>
    <li>made use of Python's csv and json libraries. These modules would without a doubt have many relevant methods for this project. I choose to parse the files myself because I knew how to do so quickly with calls to <b>open()</b>. I also admittably do not know much about the csv and json libraries and I was afraid I'd spend too much time reading the documentation/experimenting to gain familiarity. I will certainly look into these two modules on my own time in the future.</li>
    <li>used more explicit variable names, particularly in the <b>Results</b> class. I wrote this class when I was refactoring my codebase and I did so hastily as I wanted to spend a good amount of time debugging and testing. While everything works fine, variable names like <b>res</b> and <b>ans</b> aren't exactly immediately helpful to the reader. The point of either variable and the difference between the two isn't obvious like other variables are throughout the rest of the program.</li>
    <li>documented the codebase with comments and docstrings. I'm a big fan of writing commented code and I had the intention to do so at the onset, but once I started coding I never got back to it. I did make sure to use whitespace and newlines liberally so that each block of code stayed within it's family, but comments to explain the 'why' before the 'how' and 'what' would have helped nonetheless.</li>
    <li>incorporated better error handling. This ties in paritcularly to the first point of making use of Python's csv and json libraries. Because I parsed everything by hand instead of using official modules, my error handling is simplistic and reads the csv and json files in the good faith that they are properly structured for the most part. I accounted for obvious errors like empty files and unmatching JSON keys and values, but I did not ensure that either file was perfectly valid.</li>
    <li>used Ruby. I know that Ruby is BookBub's language of choice and I enjoy Ruby as much as I do Python. However, I am rusty with Ruby (file I/O in particular), have been practicing with Python as my interviewing language, and believe that Python is very human readable like Ruby so I felt compelled to finish this project with the language I knew I could get the job done in.</li>
</ul>